# spl2java

This is a Shakespeare Programming Language to Java translator written in Python. It was written as a final project for Ms. Cruceanu's ICS4U class in June 2018.

The [Shakespeare Programming Language](http://shakespearelang.sourceforge.net/report/shakespeare/shakespeare.html) is an esoteric programming language that is designed to make programs look like Shakespeare plays. The language is defined at http://shakespearelang.sourceforge.net/report/shakespeare/shakespeare.html. This program translates it into a single Java class.

## Usage

    python spl2java.py <path to SPL file> <name of Java class>

The Java class' name will also be used as the filename of the Java file output. Output is always to the current directory.

If `gui.py` is executed, a GUI also appears in which you may enter Shakespeare code in the text field on the left. When the Translate button is clicked, the equivalent Java code will appear on the right.

## Example

The following is an example Shakespeare program (taken from [the Shakespeare documentation](http://shakespearelang.sourceforge.net/report/shakespeare/shakespeare.html)):

    The Infamous Hello World Program.

    Romeo, a young man with a remarkable patience.
    Juliet, a likewise young woman of remarkable grace.
    Ophelia, a remarkable woman much in dispute with Hamlet.
    Hamlet, the flatterer of Andersen Insulting A/S.


                        Act I: Hamlet's insults and flattery.

                        Scene I: The insulting of Romeo.

    [Enter Hamlet and Romeo]

    Hamlet:
    You lying stupid fatherless big smelly half-witted coward!
    You are as stupid as the difference between a handsome rich brave
    hero and thyself! Speak your mind!

    You are as brave as the sum of your fat little stuffed misused dusty
    old rotten codpiece and a beautiful fair warm peaceful sunny summer's
    day. You are as healthy as the difference between the sum of the
    sweetest reddest rose and my father and yourself! Speak your mind!

    You are as cowardly as the sum of yourself and the difference
    between a big mighty proud kingdom and a horse. Speak your mind.

    Speak your mind!

    [Exit Romeo]

                        Scene II: The praising of Juliet.

    [Enter Juliet]

    Hamlet:
    Thou art as sweet as the sum of the sum of Romeo and his horse and his
    black cat! Speak thy mind!

    [Exit Juliet]

                        Scene III: The praising of Ophelia.

    [Enter Ophelia]

    Hamlet:
    Thou art as lovely as the product of a large rural town and my amazing
    bottomless embroidered purse. Speak thy mind!

    Thou art as loving as the product of the bluest clearest sweetest sky
    and the sum of a squirrel and a white horse. Thou art as beautiful as
    the difference between Juliet and thyself. Speak thy mind!

    [Exeunt Ophelia and Hamlet]


                        Act II: Behind Hamlet's back.

                        Scene I: Romeo and Juliet's conversation.

    [Enter Romeo and Juliet]

    Romeo:
    Speak your mind. You are as worried as the sum of yourself and the
    difference between my small smooth hamster and my nose. Speak your
    mind!

    Juliet:
    Speak YOUR mind! You are as bad as Hamlet! You are as small as the
    difference between the square of the difference between my little pony
    and your big hairy hound and the cube of your sorry little
    codpiece. Speak your mind!

    [Exit Romeo]

                        Scene II: Juliet and Ophelia's conversation.

    [Enter Ophelia]

    Juliet:
    Thou art as good as the quotient between Romeo and the sum of a small
    furry animal and a leech. Speak your mind!

    Ophelia:
    Thou art as disgusting as the quotient between Romeo and twice the
    difference between a mistletoe and an oozing infected blister! Speak
    your mind!

    [Exeunt]

This program translates to the following Java:

    // Generated by Ryan Dancy's SPL to Java translator.
    import java.util.ArrayDeque;
    import java.util.Deque;
    import java.util.Scanner;

    public class HelloWorld {
        private static Scanner scanner = new Scanner(System.in);
        private static int Romeo;
        private static Deque<Integer> Romeo_stk = new ArrayDeque<Integer>();
        private static int Juliet;
        private static Deque<Integer> Juliet_stk = new ArrayDeque<Integer>();
        private static int Ophelia;
        private static Deque<Integer> Ophelia_stk = new ArrayDeque<Integer>();
        private static int Hamlet;
        private static Deque<Integer> Hamlet_stk = new ArrayDeque<Integer>();
        public static void main(String[] args) {
            act1();
        }
        private static void act1() {
            act1scene1();
        }
        private static void act1scene1() {
            Romeo = (2*(2*(2*(2*(2*(2*-1))))));
            Romeo = ((2*(2*(2*1))) - Romeo);
            System.out.print((char) Romeo);
            Romeo = ((2*(2*(2*(2*(2*(2*(2*-1))))))) + (2*(2*(2*(2*(2*1))))));
            Romeo = (((2*(2*1)) + 1) - Romeo);
            System.out.print((char) Romeo);
            Romeo = (Romeo + ((2*(2*(2*1))) - 1));
            System.out.print((char) Romeo);
            System.out.print((char) Romeo);
            act1scene2();
        }
        private static void act1scene2() {
            Juliet = ((Romeo + 1) + (2*1));
            System.out.print((char) Juliet);
            act1scene3();
        }
        private static void act1scene3() {
            Ophelia = ((2*(2*1)) * (2*(2*(2*1))));
            System.out.print((char) Ophelia);
            Ophelia = ((2*(2*(2*1))) * (1 + (2*1)));
            Ophelia = (Juliet - Ophelia);
            System.out.print((char) Ophelia);
            act2();
        }
        private static void act2() {
            act2scene1();
        }
        private static void act2scene1() {
            System.out.print((char) Juliet);
            Juliet = (Juliet + ((2*(2*1)) - 1));
            System.out.print((char) Juliet);
            System.out.print((char) Romeo);
            Romeo = Hamlet;
            Romeo = (((int) Math.pow(((2*1) - (2*(2*-1))), 2)) - ((int) Math.pow((2*(2*-1)), 3)));
            System.out.print((char) Romeo);
            act2scene2();
        }
        private static void act2scene2() {
            Ophelia = (Romeo / ((2*(2*1)) + -1));
            System.out.print((char) Ophelia);
            Juliet = (Romeo / (2*(1 - (2*(2*-1)))));
            System.out.print((char) Juliet);
        }
    }

When run, this outputs `Hello World!`.